THE COOLING DESIGN DOC

The Cooling is a JavaFX RPG game with a top-down graphics perspective.
The main character, Brinn, is a lonely survivor of a post-apocalyptic
world consumed by the cold and the monsters that come with it. Her sole,
beloved companion is her dog Luffy.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

GAME DESIGN

PLAYER: This is a single-player game (player vs. the game system).
The player controls the main character Brinn throughout the game.

OBJECTIVES: Brinn must collect food to feed herself and her dog.
She must also fight monsters to protect herself when out collecting food.

RULES: The player can move forward, backward, left, and right. The
player must be within a small radius of a monster to attack. The
player must dodge snowballs thrown by snowmans. Eating wintermelons and
fish restores happiness for both Brinn and Luffy. Brinn can eat
icemelons to increase stats.

RESOURCES: Fish (caught by fishing), winterfruit (found in trees),
icemelon (found by exploring and battling), hearts (found by battling)

INFORMATION: The game will feature a map of places the player has been.
The number of lives (hearts) will be shown at all times. Player level
will be shown, but specific player and enemy stats will be hidden.

SEQUENCING: The player will act in real-time, battling by moving around
the landscape with arrow keys and attacking monsters on contact. There
will also be an element of adventure as the player will have to search
for hidden items (fruits) and find fishing holes to play a minigame of
catching fish to eat.

PLAYER INTERACTION: Since this is a single-player game, there is no player
interaction. However, the player will interact with her dog Luffy in her
home and battle monsters on the outside.

THEME: The Cooling features a snowy post-apocalyptic world overrun with
monsters. Brinn has to kill the monsters and collect food to take care
of her dog Luffy.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

DESIGN OF 10 ENTITIES
(see corresponding classes for variables and methods)

Brinn (player)
Brinn is controlled by the player. She can move left, right, up, and down.
She has a level and stats that can increase by battling monsters. Brinn
dies when her hearts run out, resulting in losing all carried items and
returning home where she must recover.

Luffy (Brinn's dog)
Luffy is Brinn's dog. Luffy lives at home and needs to be fed. Luffy can
eat winterfruit, fish, and icemelon.

Skeleton (monster)
The skeleton is a monster that can move left, right, up, and down. The
player must avoid or kill skeletons to avoid losing a life. Killing
skeletons increases experience needed to level up.

Snowman (monster)
The snowman is a monster that can move left, right, up, and down. The
snowman will aim snowballs at the player so the player must move quickly
to avoid getting hit and losing a life. Killing snowmans increases
experience needed to level up.

Snowball (monster weapon)
The snowball is the projectile weapon of the snowman. Getting hit by
a snowball subtracts a heart from the player.

Heart (life and item)
The player dies and loses all the items being carried when hearts run out.
Monsters occasionally drop hearts when killed which can be collected to
restore a heart. Brinn can consume a heart she is carrying at any time
while she is not at max hearts.

Tree
A tree is static in the landscapes and the player must walk to the tree
and search it to find any hidden winterfruit ripe for picking. New trees
can be grown in certain spots around Brinn and Luffy's home when a
winterfruit is planted.

Winterfruit (food item and seed)
Winterfruit was genetically engineered in a time before The Cooling to
withstand extreme temperatures. Winterfruit can occasionally be found in
trees. Winterfruit can be planted around the player's home to grow new trees.

Fish (food item)
Fish can be caught when the player finds a fishing rod and explores to find
fishing holes and plays a fishing minigame. Food increases happiness.

Icemelon (food item)
Icemelon was genetically engineered in a time before The Cooling to
provide an abundance of nutrients. These days Icemelon are hard to come by,
but sometimes Snowmans will mysteriously drop them.
